README.md, before:

# Martynak

Martynak — optimized keyboard layout for Ru/En langs. Based on fully optimized QGMLWY layout (About: http://mkweb.bcgsc.ca/carpalx/?full_optimization).

## Table of Contents

- [Martynak](#martynak)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Why](#why)
  - [Examples](#examples)
  - [Usage](#usage)

## Why

### Talk about layout (Ru)

On Youtube: [![Talk about Martynak and other keyboard layouts](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/martyns0n/martynak/master/assets/47077_2000%202.png)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXjp7R0G9ws)

### Features

- Phonetically associated layouts
- Optimized for blind typing (and truly blind too)
- Compatibility of punctuation keys in RU/EN layouts
- QWERTY hotkey compatibility in Apps
- Low efforts and errors level

## Examples

### En layout

![](./assets/en-layout.png)

### Ru layout

![](./assets/ru-layout.png)

### Both layouts on pressed alt/option

![](./assets/option-layout.png)

### Both layouts on pressed Cmd or Ctrl 

![](./assets/cmd-layout.png)

## Usage

### For Mac

Just run dmg file. Make layouts basic for input in both languages in the settings.

### For Windows

Download and unpack archives with Russian and English languages, then run .еxe files. Make layouts basic for input in both languages in the settings.

Commit message:

update doc and add training layouts for Type Fu app

README.md, after:

# Martynak

Martynak — optimized keyboard layout for Ru/En langs. Based on [fully optimized QGMLWY layout](http://mkweb.bcgsc.ca/carpalx/?full_optimization).

- [How to](#how-to)
- [Why](#why)
  - [Talk about layout (Ru)](#talk-about-layout-ru)
  - [Features](#features)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [En layout](#en-layout)
  - [Ru layout](#ru-layout)
  - [Both layouts on pressed alt/option](#both-layouts-on-pressed-altoption)
  - [Both layouts on pressed Cmd or Ctrl](#both-layouts-on-pressed-cmd-or-ctrl)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [For Mac](#for-mac)
  - [For Windows](#for-windows)

## How to

Now you can learn En version of this layout on Mac with **KeyKey**. Don't worry about Ru-layout because it's has a high mnemonic compatability. 
This app available in [Setapp](https://setapp.com/ru/apps/keykey-typing-tutor) and [App Store](https://apps.apple.com/ru/app/keykey-%D0%BA%D0%BB%D0%B0%D0%B2%D0%B8%D0%B0%D1%82%D1%83%D1%80%D0%BD%D1%8B%D0%B9-%D1%82%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%B0%D0%B6%D1%91%D1%80/id1035137927?mt=12)!
![](assets/2021-09-11-11-29-20.png)
![](assets/2021-09-11-11-36-45.png)

Also you can use [Type Fu](https://type-fu.com/) extension for Chrome (Vivaldi, Opera, Edge etc.) with custom layouts to learn En and Ru versions. Custom layouts for this app are located at `./type-fu-layouts/`.

## Why

### Talk about layout (Ru)

On Youtube: [![Talk about Martynak and other keyboard layouts](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/martyns0n/martynak/master/assets/47077_2000%202.png)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vXjp7R0G9ws)

### Features

- Phonetically associated layouts
- Optimized for blind typing (and truly blind too)
- Compatibility of punctuation keys in RU/EN layouts
- QWERTY hotkey compatibility in Apps
- Low efforts and errors level

## Examples

### En layout

![](./assets/en-layout.png)

### Ru layout

![](./assets/ru-layout.png)

### Both layouts on pressed alt/option

![](./assets/option-layout.png)

### Both layouts on pressed Cmd or Ctrl 

![](./assets/cmd-layout.png)

## Usage

### For Mac

Just run dmg file. Make layouts basic for input in both languages in the settings.

### For Windows

Download and unpack archives with Russian and English languages, then run .еxe files. Make layouts basic for input in both languages in the settings.
